docs: add job hierarchy docs (#281)
OpenLineage/docs: docs/integrations/spark/job-hierarchy.md

---
sidebar_position: 5
title: Job Hierarchy
---

## Job Hierarchy

> In contrast to some other systems, Spark's job hierarchy is more opaque. 
> For users, Spark Job is something they independently schedule - the code in 
> PySpark file, or a Jupyter Notebook. 
> 
> However, those are not what Spark internally recognizes as a job. For Spark, 
> the job is an `action` - which is a single computation action that gets 
> instantiated by a driver. Due to Spark's lazy computation model, those usually
> happen where users want to materialize the data - either by writing to some data
> sink, or by visualising it. This means a single job in user terms can be multiple
> execution units for Spark.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike other systems, Spark's job hierarchy presents a veil of opacity to users.
While you might schedule "Spark jobs" through code or notebooks, these represent an entirely different concept than what Spark sees internally.
For Spark, the true job is an action, a single computation unit initiated by the driver.
These actions materialize data only when you, the user, instruct them to write to a data sink or visualize it.
This means what you perceive as a single job can, in reality, be multiple execution units within Spark.
```

OpenLineage follows Spark execution model, and emits START/COMPLETE (and RUNNING) events
for each action. However, those are not the only events we emit.

> To tie the user-facing model of a job with one expected by Spark, OpenLineage emits
> Application-level events that are emit where Spark Application starts or ends. 
> The action-level runs are setting ParentRunFacet to point at Spark Application run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recognizing the disconnect between your understanding and Spark's internal workings, OpenLineage introduces application-level events that mark the start and end of a Spark application.
Each action-level run then points its ParentRunFacet to the corresponding Spark application run, providing a complete picture of the lineage.
```
